---
title: "A is for Adho Mukha Shvanasana | Apply | Argmax"
date: 2023-08-03
---
Without further ado, let's start with A.  

## Adho Mukha Shvanasana

You might not know the Sanskrit name but it's English name might be more familiar: downward dog! The downward dog is found in both Surya Namaskar A and B (Sun Salutation A and B). This pose strengthens your arms and stretches your hamstrings and calves.

## The Dataset
We will use the Yoga for all dataset (Kanorewala et al., 2023). You can download it on the project [website](https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/jc4mmnvcdk/1): It includes lots of images of yoga poses organized in folders based on the pose name. How perfect for datasana! For now, we will create a dataframe with all of the adho mukha svanasana(downward dog) file names and image sizes.

Let's take a look at one of the images.

Great! Let's make a dataframe with the information we care about.

## Apply
Notice how the file names start with a number? It's the number of the image in the folder. That's kind of annoying. Let's remove it. Now we could do this with a for loop, but that's slow and would require converting this column to a list and back. Instead, let's try apply! Here we'll write a small function that assumes one cell of the column as input. Then pandas will apply that to the entire column!

you can do other cool stuff with apply, including expanding to additional columns, or applying row wise rather than column. Check out the [documentation](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.apply.html)

## Argmax
Switching gears a bit, another excellent function that starts with A is argmax. Suppose we had a classifier that was identifying 5 yoga poses. It output a probability for each of the classes. Wouldn't it be nice to identify the final class simply from the array rather than iterating through in a for loop? Note that while max is helpful for getting us the probability, it doesn't tell us which class had the largest probability! The index is what we need, and that's where argmax comes in.

Pretty cool right? Check out more [here](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/generated/numpy.argmax.html). That's it for A.


fin
